My absolute favorite units in the C Ss have to be view height and view with and the reason for that
is because you can make really cool banners like this.
Now how are they going to work.
Well first and foremost they are going to be again relative.
How are they all gonna be relative to a screen.
So whatever you're seeing right now everything is gonna be relative to that.
Now what that means is that even though we're gonna be changing the screen size they're also gonna change
their dimensions depending on that.
So how this is gonna work.
Well as always we're going to head over to indexation hymnal.
We're gonna get rid of some of these suckers.
We don't need them and we're going to go first with the dev.
A class is gonna be an unknown let's call this banner and then let's copy and paste it and instead of
the banner we're going to call this header.
Again it doesn't really matter what your color class is it's for testing anyway.
Okay.
So far so good.
So we have our two days and then let me also delete these guys.
We don't need them as well.
Now let's start first with one.
Let's see what we have.
First it was the banner.
Okay so we're selecting the class of banner.
And now I'd like to use let's say 50 and in my case I House need to go with 51.
Well I'm going to say with 50 with is going to be in my case I don't know view with.
Now the reason for it again for the with we would have to use view width or height.
We're gonna have to use you height.
So we have the with.
What about the height.
Let's also say new heights and then let's check it out again.
Background is going to be right.
Now no something interesting.
Don't pay attention please again.
There's gonna be some margins that we're getting from default browser styles but what's happening is
we're getting 50 percent of the screen horizontally as well as vertically.
Now if I'm gonna make my screen size bigger it's not gonna change again depending on a screen size.
This is still gonna be 50 percent horizontally and 50 percent vertically.
Don't leave me.
Let's start out with another guy.
Let's say that there's going to be header and the header is gonna be and I'm not again with.
And we can again use any kind of values I'm just using the round values because they kind of make a
little bit more sense.
Let's make up and paste it in this case.
I don't want to with I want to hide and in my case the height is gonna be a hundred view height and
we will gonna use this a lot.
Every time we're working with the banners.
So every time we're gonna be making some kind of banners like this we will gonna use these values or
these units.
Now let me add one more thing.
And let's say a background is gonna be blue.
Now this is gonna be harder to see right away because no this will kind of have to scroll.
So you might be like well wait a minute.
This is not exactly a hundred percent.
And this is not gonna be hundred viewers okay.
I guess you don't believe me.
Well let's test it out.
No you don't have to write this code right now.
We will gonna cover this a little bit later but I'm basically gonna do it like a little reset and I'm
gonna do this with properties we haven't covered yet.
So again please don't freak out.
We will gonna cover them later.
So let's say first I'm gonna say margin zero.
And by the way you don't have to do this.
I'm just doing it just so you can see that it's really happening.
Then the padding is gonna be zero.
And we're also gonna have box sizing to a broader box so something like this.
Now what happens.
You can see that this is exactly right now.
Hundred percent horizontally as well as 100 percent vertically.
And you know what.
Let me do one last thing and let's flip them over.
Let's say that we're going to be looking first for the header and then the banner.
So as you start scrolling This is gonna be a hundred percent.
So the moment loads.
This is exactly my height and with the screen at the moment scrolling.
This is where I'm getting to my next time and this right now is gonna be 50 percent.
Now if I'm gonna make again my screen size bigger.
This guy obviously is gonna work we have 50 percent of the screen.
So again they are really really cool values or unit.
They're all gonna use them quite a lot.
Every time we're going to be working with the banner but also you can use for many other things.
And what it allows you to do is not to use some kind of tax or anything like that dealing with percentages
instead.
Again you're just using the screen.
You're saying hey listen give me 25 percent of the screen give me seventy five percent give me 10 percent.
It doesn't matter.
You're working with the screen so every time you're going to be working depending on different screen
size.
He didn't get to perform exactly the same way.